---
title:      Download
bg:         white
color:      black
accent:     red
fa-icon:    download
---

## Get Lensed

#### Releases

<ul class="downloads">
    <li><a href="https://github.com/glenco/lensed/releases/latest" title="Latest">
        <i class="fa fa-file-archive-o"></i>
        <strong>latest</strong>
    </a></li>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/glenco/lensed/releases" title="Previous">
        <i class="fa fa-ellipsis-h"></i>
        <strong>previous</strong>
    </a></li>
</ul>

Make sure to read the [documentation](#docs) to get started!

#### What's that?

There are two ways to get Lensed:

The first is downloading one of our releases from above.
These are regularly updated versions of the code with an associated number that
make it easier to talk about a specific set of implemented features. A version
number is printed at the start or by running `lensed --version`. Lensed uses
[semantic versioning](http://semver.org), and increases the major version for
breaking changes, the minor version for non-breaking changes, and the patch
number for bugfixes, respectively. Using this scheme, you can anticipate the
amount of breakage when updating from any given version of Lensed to another.

The other way of getting Lensed is through the [code repository](#code). This
involves using the `git` version control system to check out a live, evolving
development version of the code, which should nonetheless be stable and usable.
This method of getting the code is preferable in case you wish to participate
in development, fix bugs or contribute to the documentation, as your changes
can be integrated into the official distribution easily. See below for links to
our [GitHub project](#code) and the [developer documentation](#docs).
